now we're just learning that Israel's
Air Force has been put on high alert the
country's military is recalling air
defense reservists to their bases
Israeli media are reporting that this is
an anticipation of a possible response
from Iran that's after Israel attacked
the Iranian Consulate in Damascus Syria
on Monday killing senior Iranian
military officials Al Hamas salut is in
occupied East Jerusalem H what are you
learning
we're learning that after an assessment
with the Israeli Army chief of staff and
the defense Ministry the Israeli Army
has decided to bolster its air defense
array meaning that they're going to be
calling up reservists in anticipation
for retaliation but where it will be is
not yet known all of this comes after
the Israeli attack on the Iranian
missions in Damascus and remember just
last week Israel's defense minister yoab
Galant hinting at these Israeli strikes
in Damascus though never claiming
responsibility saying that Israel is in
active pursuit of hisbah any adonan
proxies wherever enemies May lie whether
that's Beirut anywhere else in Lebanon
in Damascus or anywhere else in the
world and it also comes after just a few
days ago the isra Army Chief of Staff
authorizing new plans he says for
bolstering these attacks on hisbah
targets he says in southern Lebanon so
clearly an escalation in the region as
the Israelis say they are on maximum
alert hamda for for context when's the
last time you've seen something like
this Israel recalling its reservists I
mean how much can we read into
this it's certainly an interesting
question because the northern front of
this war which hasn't really escalated
into a fullscale war the Israelis have
said they were first on the defensive
but now they're turning to an active
pursuit of hisbah and any sort of
Iranian proxy previously we have heard
from the Israeli Army that all of their
focus was mainly going to be on
defeating Hamas in Gaza so really
mobilizing most of their troops to the
southern part of the country however
they say that there are still around
880,000 people who have been evacuated
from towns and settlements in the
northern part of Israel and yoav Galant
has been saying this for months now that
the situation cannot remain as such that
there will be some sort of action by the
Israelis to try and solve what they're
calling a problem on Israel's northern
border but now the Israelis are saying
that they're going to attack wherever
they see fit and they are expecting
retaliation for that which is why they
are indeed calling up reservist Israeli
media reading into this as an escalation
in the region sarl all right Hamas
alhood thank you very much for that snap
reporting there on what we're just
learning uh out of Israel that's Hamas
Sal hutin occupied East Jerusalem I turn
now to Tam kmut who's back in the studio
with us assistant professor of public
policy at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies what's your read on
this um uh so timing again s because the
the war on Gaza is entering its last
phase when it comes to the severity of
the military operations you only have a
small Enclave of rafah Israel put most
of its reserves from the Gaza Strip you
only have a small force in the Gaza
Strip they are preparing to engage with
RAF somehow I mean once they agree with
Americans now Israel is shifting Focus
to the north because this I mean this
front is still on fire of course it's a
measured escalation I mean it has been
always a measured escalation since the
onset of the 7 of October 11th but now
Israel has the appetite to go and test
Iran's patients and's Readiness for
what's next because they want to end
this fraud they want to bring it to an
end I mean this this escalation in the
north so by attacking the embassy in
Iran which is a in own diplomatic terms
international relations a vulgar attack
I mean this is this is a direct attack
against an Iranian soul I mean I mean
diplomatic Norms you know yeah first
time first time they hit ex the the
Iranian Embassy compound because they
hit the consulate but it's in the
embassy compound in Damascus now Israel
is believed to have hit plenty of
targets yes uh Iranian Target various
Iranian targets uh within Syria they
never fully claim responsibility but
there's no real doubt them and even
within Iran itself but but this time by
attacking the embassy directly so
they're like Crossing line and they're
testing Iran's patients and reaction so
they want to see what's Iran's next move
on this I I really don't know I mean all
the scenarios are open on the table now
I mean we are in an Uncharted Territory
because the Iranians are really
embarrassed and they have been pushed
into a very narrow corner now and they
have to
retaliate how would they do it mostly
probably through proxy Powers through
hisbah or maybe huis or whomever they
support but targeting targeting a Target
within Israel itself wouldn't it be more
likely that they would Target something
outside Israel Israel interests but
outside Israel possibly possibly I mean
the Iranians of course I mean they will
not disclose these plans but but but
most logically I mean they already have
a front on fire with Lebanon and hisbah
is there
andah engagement with Israel has been
under a very constrained War uh
scenarios now they could escalate I mean
escalate hit deeper in the Israeli side
more rockets inside Israel we never know
so this could be in preparation for uh
for this for this scenario I mean
hasballah hitting deep
inside Israel I mean what do you think
are the interests of both side Israel on
the one on the one hand what are their
interests they've been messaging we are
ready for War uh on the nor what they
call the northern front which is against
Hezbollah in Lebanon um they've clearly
they've struck Iranian targets across
the region so what are Israel's
interests what are the interests uh and
what's Iran's interests that's a very
good question s so let's start with the
Iranian or hisbah interest so hisbah
involvement in this War uh to support
the Palestinian resistance in Gaza Hamas
as part of the exis movement or the AIS
resistance uh and as long as the war in
Gaza continues hisbah will keep fighting
Israel from the northern front uh I
think Israel now at this stage because
it's almost finished with destroying
mostly of the enre I mean most of the
Gaza Strip with all the huge destruction
we have seen and uh so now they have the
the ability to shift their military
Focus taking resources away from Gaza to
the north and reach to a new
Arrangements governing pertaining the
northern borders I mean let's not forget
most of Israeli I mean there are
hundreds of thousands of Israelis who
are fled South they cannot return to the
north this is a huge pressure on netan
and he promised to deliver on this and
he hasn't delivered so far so there is
still an open front in the north what
the Israelis want is they want to push
hisbah back from the northern borders
they want to reach a new political
agreement through the UN through the US
any involved parties so they create new
rules of engagement and and New
Management mechanisms for the borders
where they want to see hisbah uh stay
away from the borders I don't know it's
seven or 10 kilos I don't know the
particular details of the negotiations
and then there will be ceasefire and
they want to reach to this impose this
this these Arrangements now on on on
leanon all right Tom thank you very much
it's something we're going to continue
to talk about in the coming hours I do
want to get to the rest of world new
news as well though Tom carut there
thank you very much